рҹҡҖ Accepted on Codeforces! | Codeforces Round 1106 (Div. 2) вҖ“ Problem A: Another Puzzle from Papyrus рҹ“ң

This problem initially looked like it would require trying many transformations on the arrays. However, after carefully analyzing the allowed operations, the solution boiled down to checking only two possible strategies and choosing the one with the minimum cost. рҹ’Ў

рҹ”—Problem Link:https://lnkd.in/gJqfnppE

рҹ”Қ Problem Understanding
We are given two arrays:
a вҖ“ the initial array
b вҖ“ the target array
The allowed operations let us modify the array in a restricted way, and each operation has an associated cost.
Our goal is to determine the minimum cost required to transform a into b, or report that it is impossible.

рҹ§  Key Observation
Instead of simulating every possible sequence of operations, there are only two meaningful scenarios to consider.
вң… Strategy 1: Keep the Original Order
Compare each corresponding element:
a[i] вҶ’ b[i]

If every element in a is at least as large as the corresponding element in b, the transformation is possible.
The cost is simply:
вҲ‘(aiвҲ’bi)\sum (a_i - b_i)вҲ‘(aiвҖӢвҲ’biвҖӢ)Otherwise, this strategy is impossible.
вң… Strategy 2: Rearrange Optimally
Sort both arrays independently.

sa = sorted(a)
sb = sorted(b)

Now compare them element by element.
If every sorted element satisfies:
sa[i] вүҘ sb[i]

then a valid transformation exists.
The cost becomes:
C+вҲ‘aвҲ’вҲ‘bC + \sum a - \sum bC+вҲ‘aвҲ’вҲ‘bwhere C is the fixed cost specified in the problem.

вҡЎ Approach
1пёҸвғЈ Check whether the transformation is possible without sorting.
2пёҸвғЈ Compute its total cost.
3пёҸвғЈ Sort both arrays.
4пёҸвғЈ Check whether the sorted version is feasible.
5пёҸвғЈ Compute its cost.
6пёҸвғЈ Output the minimum of the two valid costs.
If neither strategy works:

print(-1)

рҹ“Ҳ Complexity Analysis
Time Complexity: O(n log n) (sorting dominates)
Space Complexity: O(n)
Efficient enough for the given constraints.

рҹҺҜ What I Learned
This problem reinforced an important competitive programming lesson:
вң… Don't simulate every operation if you can identify the only meaningful outcomes.
вң… Sorting is often a powerful tool for comparing multisets optimally.
вң… Breaking a problem into a few well-defined cases can lead to a much cleaner and faster solution.
Competitive programming is often about recognizing patterns rather than writing lengthy code. рҹҡҖ

рҹҢҹ Key Takeaway
Evaluate the original configuration and the sorted configuration, compute the cost for both, and choose the minimum valid answer.
Another enjoyable problem that strengthened my understanding of greedy thinking, sorting, and case analysis. рҹ’Ә