🚀 Accepted on Codeforces! | Technocup 2016 – Elimination Round 1 | Problem B: Assemble the Table 🪵

Happy to share another Accepted ✅ solution on Codeforces!

This problem looked like it would require testing different pairings of table leg parts, but the key insight was much simpler: after sorting the lengths, pairing the smallest remaining part with the largest remaining part always produces a valid solution. 💡

🔗Problem Link: https://lnkd.in/gd9dx-qQ

🔍 Problem Understanding
We are given 2n table leg parts, and we need to form n complete table legs.
Each completed leg must have the same total length, while every part can be used exactly once.
The task is to output one valid pairing.

🧠 Key Observation
Since the problem guarantees that a valid solution always exists, we don't need to search through all possible combinations.
Instead:
Sort all part lengths in ascending order.
Pair the smallest remaining part with the largest remaining part.
This ensures that every pair has the same total length.
For example:
Parts: 1 2 3 4 5 6

Sorted: 1 2 3 4 5 6

Pairing:
1 + 6 = 7
2 + 5 = 7
3 + 4 = 7

Every completed table leg has the same length. ✅

⚡ Approach
1️⃣ Read the 2n part lengths.
2️⃣ Sort the array.
3️⃣ Pair:
First element with the last
Second element with the second last
Continue until all parts are used.

a.sort()

for i in range(n):
    print(a[i], a[2*n - 1 - i])

📈 Complexity Analysis
Time Complexity: O(n log n) (sorting dominates)
Space Complexity: O(1) (excluding input storage)
Efficient and optimal for the given constraints.

🎯 What I Learned
This problem reinforced an important competitive programming lesson:
✅ When a solution is guaranteed to exist, look for a deterministic construction instead of brute-force searching.
✅ Sorting often reveals hidden patterns that make pairing problems much easier.
✅ Greedy pairing of the smallest and largest elements is a common and powerful technique in algorithm design.
Sometimes, the simplest strategy is the optimal one. 🚀

💡 Core Idea

Sort the array
↓
Pair smallest with largest
↓
Repeat until all parts are used

A simple greedy observation leads directly to an Accepted ✅ solution!