🚀 Day 738: Codeforces Problem Solved: Serval and String Theory
Recently, I solved Problem A — Serval and String Theory from Codeforces Round #1011 (Div. 2).

The problem looks simple, but the key is to identify the right conditions instead of simulating operations. 

🔗Problem Link: https://lnkd.in/gsEDA2AR

🧠 Problem Idea
A string s is called universal if:
s < reverse(s)

We need to determine whether it is possible to make the given string universal using at most k operations.
💡 Approach
The solution can be reduced to checking three cases:
1️⃣ Check whether the string is already universal

rev = s[::-1]

if s < rev:
    print("YES")

If s is already lexicographically smaller than its reverse, no operation is required.
2️⃣ If it is not universal, check whether we have an operation available

elif k > 0 and len(set(s)) > 1:
    print("YES")

If:
k > 0, meaning we can perform an operation, and
the string contains at least two different characters,
then we can rearrange it to obtain a universal string.
3️⃣ Otherwise, the answer is NO

else:
    print("NO")

This is especially important when all characters are identical, such as:
aaaa

No rearrangement can make it lexicographically smaller than its reverse.
🔍 Why len(set(s)) > 1?
For example:
s = "aaaa"

Every possible rearrangement is still:
"aaaa"

So:
s == reverse(s)

and the answer is NO.
But for:
s = "ab"

we have different characters, so rearranging can produce:
"ab" < "ba"

Therefore, the answer can be YES.

⏱️ Complexity
For each test case:
Reversing the string → O(n)
Creating set(s) → O(n)
Lexicographical comparison → O(n)
Therefore:
Time Complexity: O(n)
 Space Complexity: O(n)
The overall solution is linear and easily handles the given constraints. 

💻 Key Learning
The biggest takeaway for me was:
Don't simulate when the problem can be reduced to a few logical conditions.
Competitive programming is not only about writing code quickly — it's about finding the mathematical observation behind the problem.